Here's another example of a function
converting Fahrenheit temperature to
Celsius temperature.
Let's try it out.
First, it asks me to enter
a Fahrenheit temperature and
I'll enter 212 degrees.
And it converted that to 100 degrees
Celsius, so it seems to work fine.
So this would seem to be a good program.
Now let's take a look at
the writing of the program, and
then we'll talk more about it.
First of all, I have the documentation and
I say that it's bad.
It does seem to work.
Let's go on and look at it and
then we'll see why that I say it's bad.
The temperature is being
input from the keyboard.
So it says enter a Fahrenheit temperature.
There it is, and we enter 212 degrees.
We converted that, now this is input as
a string, anything typed in is a string.
So we take that string and
we convert it to an integer.
Can't do arithmetic on it if we don't
convert it from a string to an integer,
to a number, anyway.
Okay, then we compute a new
temperature using the formula for
converting Fahrenheit temperatures
to Celsius temperatures.
So now we've got the temperature and
the new temperature.
Now we'll print the Fahrenheit
temperature, temp,
is equivalent to, and we're going to
keep from going to a new line and
then we're going to
print a new temperature,
the computed Celsius temperature,
degrees Celsius, and so it worked.
Okay, now why, if it works,
do I say that that's bad?
Well, let's run it again and
I'm going to show you what can go wrong.
I'm going to press up arrow,
that repeats the previous command.
Okay, and this time,
instead of typing 212 degrees,
I'm just going to simply press Enter.
Well, this is an example
of a Python error.
It says here, invalid literal for
int with base 10 and
it gives the thing that I entered.
I just pressed Return,
I didn't give it a real number.
And so when it tried to convert it,
a blank to an integer, it couldn't.
And so the program crashed right there.
You can see that the statement that it
crashed on is temp = int(temp_str).
So this is not a very robust program.
If somebody tried to run the program,
they might get this error message and
they would be puzzled
as to what's going on.
Let's try to improve the program and
here's fahrenheit_to_celsius2.
Now what we want to do, is we want to
check to see if they entered something.
So after entering the Fahrenheit
temperature, I'm going to say,
if temp_string and
then I'm going to do all of those things.
Now temp_string is considered to
be true if it's anything
other than just empty, okay?
This is programming
technicality kind of things.
Let's run it and
see if it corrects the problem.
Now I'm going to press up arrow, Two or
three times until I get back to this one.
I'm going to change it from
fahrenheit_to_celsius1 to
fahrenheit_to_celsius2, save
me some typing.
Okay, enter a Fahrenheit temperature.
212 works, okay, and we'll run it again.
And this time,
I'm going to just press Enter.
Now it didn't crash.
So we made an improvement on this thing.
We could have put an else
statement in here and
say you have to enter a temperature.
But this one has problems too.
Let's try 212.0.
We know it works on 212, 212.0.
The problem is that
212.0 is not an integer.
It's considered a real number
because it's got the 0.0 there.
Or in programmer talk, it's a float.
They usually say float
rather than an integer.
Here's an improvement on this thing
that's going to correct that.
Here is fahrenheit_to_celsius3.
We're going to start off the same way.
We're going to input the temperature
string, and we're going to check,
if the temperature string is not empty,
then we're going to do the rest, okay?
But the rest considered is
we're going to check to see if
the temperature string has a digit.
Now we haven't seen this before,
but strings have various methods.
These are things that strings can do for
themselves.
And they're separated from the name
of the string by a period.
So isdigit is like a function for
that string, it's called a method, okay?
If it's entirely digits, it's okay.
But if it has a period in it,
then it's not all digits.
So if everything is a digit is true,
then we're going to say,
we're going to apply the integer,
convert the string to integer.
Ad then we're going to compute
the new temperature and
we're going to print out the result.
Else we'll print out that you
must enter a number, say goodbye.
Let's see how that one works.
Again, we'll press up arrow
till we get to this and
we'll convert it to 3 and
we'll enter the temperature, works fine.
Try it again, up arrow.
Press blank, works fine.
We tested to see if we actually
entered a string, and since we didn't,
we didn't go through the code
that's inside of this if statement.
Now let's try it again.
And this time, we'll enter 212.0.
We got inside here, and we check to
see if it's a digit and it wasn't,
everything wasn't a digit,
the period's there.
Else prints, you must enter a number, bye.
Here's a function that
uses integer division.
It converts inches to feet.
Let's run it.
77 inches is 6 feet, 5 inches.
Now let's look and see how that's done.
First of all, we have to have the 6 feet,
so we use integer division,
divide by 12 and
we look and see how many times 12
will go into the number of inches.
In this case we use 77.
And it went 6 times.
Now 6 12s are 72, so
there are inches left over.
When we have these extra inches,
we compute them by taking the total
inches given minus 12 times
the number of feet we computed.
12 times 6 was 72, so
when we subtracted 72
from 77 we got 5 inches.
So we printed inches is 77 inches is,
6 feet and the extra inches, 5 inches.
So we used integer divide right here.
But we got the remainder
by multiplying by 12 and
subtracting it from the total inches.
What I want you to do is to rewrite
this function so that it uses
the remainder function percent to
compute the inches that are left over.
Remember how that works.
If we take 19 and divide by 5,
we get a remainder of 4.
Now I want you to modify this function,
call it inches_to_feet2,
and replace the middle line with
one that computes the extra inches
by using the remainder function,
the percent operator.
Press the Continue button when you
are finished writing your function.
Here's my solution.
The only difference is
right here in this line.
You take inches % 12,
that gives us the remainder
on dividing by 12,
that's the extra inches.